.TH OFTPD 8 "2001-04-03" Linux "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME 
oftpd \- anonymous, read-only FTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oftpd [-p|--port
.I port
.B ] [-i|--interface
.I ip-address
.B ] [-m|--max-clients
.I num
.B ] [-l|--local
.I local-logging
.B ] [-N|--nodetach]
.I user-name root-directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oftpd
is an anonymous-only FTP server.  

Although it must be started by the root user, after initialization it
runs as the user specified by 
.I user-name
parameter.  This should be a user with minimal permissions, preferably
from an account set up for this purpose only.

The server uses
.BR chroot (2)
to change the root directory of the server to the 
.I root-directory
directory.  When a user connects, this is the directory that they will
start in, and is the top of their directory tree.

When FTP clients connect, they may log in as "ftp" or "anonymous".
Typically they will then send their e-mail address as password (most web
browsers send a browser identifier rather than the user's e-mail
address).  Standard Unix file permissions are enforced for downloading,
meaning clients may download any file 
.I user-name
has permission to read.  No uploads are permitted.  All client activity
is logged (see 
.B DIAGNOSTICS
below).
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-p|--port port"
Use the specified
.I port 
to listen for client connections.  If not specified, the default FTP
port (number 21) is used.
.IP "-i|--interface ip-address"
Use the interface connected to the IP address
.I ip-address
to accept connections.  If not specified, the server listens on all
interfaces.
.IP "-m|--max-clients num"
Accept at most 
.I num
simultaneous clients.  If not specified, 250 will be the limit.
.IP "-l|--local local-logging"
Normally oftpd logs messages to syslog as the FTP daemon.  With this
option, the specified 
.I local-logging
level will be used instead.  Valid numbers are 0-8.
.IP "-N|--nodetach"
Do not run in the background; for running from
.BR init (8)
or for testing.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Syntax errors will result in a help message being displayed, and a
non-zero exit code returned.  Otherwise the server will exit without
output, and return zero.

After the server has started, you should check the appropriate log
produced by 
.BR sysklogd (8)
for the FTP daemon to insure that startup completed correctly.  Certain
errors occur only after the server has disconnected from the TTY, so
can only be recorded via the log mechanism.

If the server must terminate for any reason, it will also be logged, as
will other non-fatal internal errors.  They are logged with attention to
how serious the condition is believed to be, as documented in the
.BR syslog (3)
library call.

Client activity will also be logged through this mechanism.  This
includes connect and disconnect (or rejection due to too many
simultaneous users), the e-mail address reported as password, and file
transfers.  All client commands are logged as sent at the 
.B DEBUG 
level.  To fully monitor client activity you may configure
.BR sysklogd (8)
to record these.
.SH NOTES
.B oftpd
does not use 
.BR inetd (8)
to run.  It is a stand-alone server.  There is no need to configure the 
.I /etc/inetd.conf
file to run it.  In fact, there should be no entry for FTP there at all.

You can use the
.BR kill (1)
command to stop
.B oftpd.
When the server receives SIGHUP or SIGINT, it will stop listening for
new FTP connections, and a new FTP server may be started.  Any existing
connections to the old server will continue to function normally until
the client disconnects or times out.  After all clients connections have
closed, the server will exit.  

To shutdown the server and close all client connections immediately, use
SIGKILL.
.SH AUTHOR
Shane Kerr <shane@time-travellers.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ftp (1)

